# Mapping Malnutrition
India ranks 105 out of the 127 countries on the Global Hunger Index (GHI) and with it’s population of 1.43 billion, comprises 1/3rd of the world’s malnourished children. India also has the highest child wasting rate in the world at 18.7%. Despite efforts, malnutrition costs India as much as 3% of it’s GDP growth each year, making the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s inconceivably bold claims of making India a $5 trillion economy by 2025. The key issue lies in the government’s one-size-fits-all approach towards malnutrition.

While an avalance of studies attempt to quantify the burned of malnutrition of India and a portion of them also point towards the potential key determinants of malnutrition, sparsely any strive to understand how child malnutrition interacts with its diverse determinants across different regions of the country. Even fewer discuss the inefficiency of focusing at only one aspect to solve malnutrition at a time (for example, Literacy Rate) instead of multidimensional effort. Hence, the data collected serves a two-fold purpose of finding spatial dependencies by employing a of malnutrition Geographically Weighted Regression (GWR) and driving focus away from policies that focus on mending a single determinant.

The National Family Health Survey - 4 (2015-16) is used to collect dristict-level population, nutrition and health data for 7 states of India. These states have the highest malnutrition rates in the country. The spatial data is fetched from Open Street Maps (OSM) using the Nomatim API.
